
PROFILE
Hi, my name is João Scheleder, I was born in Curitiba and today I am fifty one years old, 
I live in the city of Colombo (metropolitan region of Curitiba), 
I'm single, I have three beautiful children (thirteen, sixteen and thirty years old), 
B driving license, I'm a non-smoker, available for travel, 
(work on-site and/or home-office), and can work as a PCD (disabled person), 
as I have monocular vision (CID H54-4),  due to toxoplasmosis.

SPELL
S => ÉSS
C => SÍ
H => EIX
E => II
L => ÉL
E => II
D => DI
E => II
R => ÁR

SKILLS
I have more than twenty year of experience as Electronic Technician.
Experienced in industrial automation, instalattion and mainteance of electrical 
and electronics equipaments, industrial computers, and I have good knowledge of 
communications networks.
(I also know how to repair a computers very well.)
(I always like to be learning things that make me grow professionally.)
I'm passionate about what I do.
I also have experience with technical and quality standards, process improvements, 
negotiation with costumers and suppliers. 
(Mainteance contracts management, product development, electronic projects, 
firmware and software development and teamwork)

FORMATION - BACKGROUND
I'm a Technician in Electronic, Mechatronics, Industrial Automation and Robotics 
from the Technical School and have degree in Computer Sciences - Systems Analysis
from Estácio de Sá University.
And I have taken dozens others courses in my career.
(Computer courses, programations languages, security courses, etc)
I'm proficient in Microsoft Office.

ENGLISH LEVEL
My english is basic. My writing is good and I understand almost everything I read, 
but I still have to improve my listening and speaking. Sometimes, I get a little 
bit nervous when I need to talk to native speakers, but I'm working on it.
I want to take conversation classes for improve my communication (with my 
international team and costumers.)

LAST JOBS
Im my last job worked at Berry Global, an American company, as Electronics Technician 
for over four years. 
Berry produces non-woven and has dozens production lines in several branches throughout 
Latin America.
At Berry, I learned and specialized in industrial automation, maintaining production lines, 
performing interventions in PLCs, industrial computers, inverters, sensors, etc. 
(Also I developed applications (mainly in Java language) for desktop and mobile.)

Before that I worked for six years at Sicpa, a Switzerland Company.
(Sicpa is the biggest money printing ink manufacturer.)
My tasks were in the mainteance of the SICOBE Project, a system that controls and tracks 
the production of beverages (beer, water, soda, etc) throughtout Brazil, counting, 
identifiyng and printing a datamatrix code on the product (on the lid or under the can).
I had the opportunity to learn many things, and got through lot of experiences.
(Programming PLCs, repairing prints (like deskjets),configuring sensors and TCP/IP networks).

First of all I worked with energy systems (no-breaks, stabilizers, battery charges, etc) 
for almost twenty years, and during this period I had my own bussiness for six years.
(Mainly Motor-home automation).

WHY DID YOU LEAVE OR GET FIRED?
In Berry, the sector I worked in was outsourced to an external company.
(I wasn't happy, but I understood their side, its a part of bussiness.)
(At that time, I didn't know the company's intentions,) 
(and there was the prospect of carrying out new projects.)
In Sicpa, the project was closed.
(I heard that there was a case of corruption in the company).

PERSPECTIVES - GOALS
I've already achieved many of my goals, but in my area we cannot stand still, because
there are always new technologies.
I hope to learn new things, improve my english, bring good results to the team, 
being working in 'ISRA company' for a while, being in a good position and help 
my leadership to get a better position. (We will grow together).

HIRE ME
I have experience and skills to make the work, and I know a little about the product, 
and I believe that my profile fits what they are looking for.

WHY WANT THIS JOB - LOOKING FOR
(Because I need! rs...)
But I believe its a great opportunity for grouth in my carrer.
In this company I will be able to work on what I like, I will have the possibility of 
learning new things and growing with the team.
I have heard good things about ISRA company.
Multinational companies tend to have a more serious management and give more stability 
to employees. (So I believe that this job add to my values).

PRODUCT
I already know a little about machine vision.
When Tavares carried out interventions at Berry Global, I helped him on someone tasks,
Mainly on the computer or networks problems.
I was responsible for making backup images for the ISRA systems.
I installed UPSs in the cabinets of the ISRA systems in all line produtions at Berry.
I also replaced all Hard Disks with Solid State Disks.
(mostly things where more than one person was needed)
(Tasks like allignment of cameras, lens focus, replacement of peripherals too.)

FORCES - STRENGTHS
I dedicate myself to tasks;
I'm obstinate to improve process;
I love to learn new things;
I always try to fulfill my tasks on time;
I like to share my knowledge and help others;

TEAM PLAYER
Yes. I like to cooperate with others and always try to share my knowledge.
For me, its very important in the workplace.

WEAKNESS
I'm little eager, anxious;
(I used to be more, today I'm mutch better.)
(I don't accept delays);
I dont like in to speak in public.
Sometimes I prefer to work things out myself;
But I have been working on those weaknesses... 8-)

REACT TO CRITICISM
I always try to deal constructively. After receive, I would spend a time observing my 
attitudes to assess the situation, and communicate my superior and I ask you for help.

WORKING UNDER PRESSURE - DIFFICULT SITUATIONS - OVERCAME A CHALLENGE
In my last job I had to deals with a insatisfied production employees, as they were my 
internal costumers.
I always tried to remember that was nothing personal and I need to focus on the 
technical issues to solve the problem, because that was also mine too.
(Always dealing professionally, seeking information and solutions, because sometimes, 
the task demands greater skills than I possessed).
I think had ability to learn the necessary and manage the work.

RELATIONSHIP PROBLEMS
I usually have a good relationship, I can't remember any problems.
I don't leave any job because bad relations.

HOBBIES - FREE TIME
I like to be spend time with my family, watching movies, football and NBA, 
listen music, work in my garden and cook or barbecue with friends.
(my speciality is moqueca, its a seafood with vegetables, I like to cook on a wood stove, 
meat in a wood oven too)
( I drink with meals, or in especial events like weddings, parties)
(Used to be a coach in amateur football and I was also a teacher at a children's 
football school.)

CHILDRENS
Jessica, the oldest, is a zootechnician and works in the field of animal medicine.
The boys... They still don't know what they're going to be.
I would like them to work in my area, but I believe that only the 
youngest son is interested.

WAGE REQUEST - SORT A SALARIAL
In my previous job I was earning a little over seven thousands REAIS.
But I'm willing to negotiate salary and benefits, its flexible.
(It is difficult to talk only about salary because it depends on the benefits offered.)
(I had like to hear about the benefits first, if possible.)
I have already been informed about this.
I believe I fit into the salary sort and the career plan attracted me.

BRAZILIAN ECONOMIC SITUATION IS DANGEROUS
Im my opinion, the Brazilian government spend too much on unnecessary charges, 
(has to take control of the situation and work harded to solve our problems.) 
(In this moment of difficulty,) the Brazilian people need to learn how to save 
the money to get the through this situation.
I think that financial education should be a subject in Brazilian schools, 
(so since we would learn how to deal with money.)
In fact, Brazil needs a lot of investment in education.
(I hope this make sense, I messed up in the comments)

WORLD CUP
I hope Brazil becomes the champions.
But we depend a lot of Neymar, he needs to play for the team. I think he's very selfish.
But I like Germany too, because it's the country of my grandparents.
(Yes, my mother's and father's parents migrated from Germany during the War.)

POLITICS
We have a lot of problems here...
Politics in Brazil is a delicate topic, as the situation is very polarized.
I don't support any side, I hope for a less populist third way.
Brazil needs to invest in education soon.

LIVE OUTSIDE OF BRAZIL
I think about, mainly because my kids.
Im encourage them for this.
(I wish they would grow up in a fairer place.)
(Here will take decades to improve the situation.)

TRAGEDY
Its happened near here. The hill collapsed, due to excessive rain.
Some cars and two trucks were passing on the highway (and were buried).
A terrible scene, can only pray for the people. 

AMAZONIA
The forest needs to be preserved, to maintain our biodiversity, I believe that we must exploit it economically.
Today carbon credits are a reality, it is possible to take advantage of it

TO PROGRAMMING
This position in this company is different from the position that 
I used to have at my previous jobs.
So it means that I want to change my professional area, 
and this opportunity is what I'm looking for.

QUESTIONS
ISRA provides some incentive to education?
Can I be called for training outside of Brazil?
(I want to visit Darmstadt)
Is it possible to make a career outside of Brazil?

INDUSTRY
Automotive, nonwovens, paper, metal, glassses, automation, etc.
Inovation, client focused, quality, precision, durability.

JOKES
Alexa, I'm bored.
Alexa responds: Whats happen?
My uncle is dead.
Alexa: Sorry about that. Would it help you if I told a joke?
Sure!
Alexa: Toc toc...
Who is?
Alexa: Not your Uncle.

Alexa, Tell me a joke. I'm fired.
Alexa: OK. Whats the difference in a big pizza and you?
I don't know.
Alexa: The pizza feeds one family.